NOM-7 SSO documentation (#277)
neo4j/docs-ops-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/installation/sso/auth0.adoc

= Auth0 Support
:description: Describes Auth0 IdP support in NOM SSO

NOM server supports Single Sign-On (SSO) authentication using Auth0 Identity Provider (IdP)
with following grant types:

* Implicit flow
* Authorization code flow
* PKCE flow (_Front channel token retrieval_)

== Configure Auth0 Identity Provider (IdP) for SSO

> This document assumes user has access to an Auth0 Management dashboard to setup the SSO Client Application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The content on this page assumes that you have access to an Auth0 Management dashboard to setup the SSO Client Application.
```

> Following is a typical process of setting up NOM SSO Client Application in Auth0:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is a typical process of setting up NOM SSO Client Application in Auth0:
```

* Create a new __Application__ by choosing `Single Page Web Application` as application type.
* Copy details _Domain_ , _Client ID_ , _Client Secret_ from `Basic Information` section of __Application Settings__.
* Configure __Application URIs__ :
    ** Add `\https://<NOM_SERVER_HOSTNAME>:<NOM_SERVER_PORT>/login` (omit the port if using default 443) as the only `Application Login URI`.
    ** Add `\https://<NOM_SERVER_HOSTNAME>:<NOM_SERVER_PORT>/auth0-callback` (omit the port if using default 443) as the only `Allowed Callback URLs`.
    ** Add `\https://<NOM_SERVER_HOSTNAME>:<NOM_SERVER_PORT>` as the only `Allowed Logout URLs`.
* Under __Advanced Settings__, select following _Grant Types_:
    ** Implicit
    ** Authorization Code
    ** Refresh token
* Configure other settings like Connections & Login Experience according to your tenant setup

> * We recommend creating 2 user roles to be mapped to NOM’s Admin and Read-only user roles to keep NOM server configuration simple. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It is recommended to create 2 user roles to be mapped to NOM’s Admin and Read-only user roles to keep NOM server configuration simple. 
```

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.scopes`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_SCOPES`
| Comma-separated list of scopes to request during authentication.
The scope should contain the enabled scopes in the Auth0 `Authorization Server`.
| `email,profile,openid`

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.issuer`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_ISSUER`
| Issuer URL of the Auth0 `Authorization Server`.
| `\https://<ORG>.auth0.com/oauth2/`

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.audience`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_AUDIENCE`
| Audience for validating the access token.
It is the audience configured for custom Auth0 `Authorization Server`. If using default server, it would be `api://default`.
| `https://<ORG>.auth0.com/api/v2/`
|===

== Example configuration

The following is an example configuration using environment variables to set up a single SSO configuration named `auth01` with `AUTHORIZATION_CODE` grant type
and disable username/password login.

If configuring for `IMPLICIT` or `PKCE` grant type, there is no need to set `client-secret`.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Make sure to quote variable values containing special characters such as `?` to prevent the shell from interpreting them.

> This depends on the shell you are using.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to quote variable values containing special characters such as `?`.
Otherwise the shell may interpret them, but it depends on which shell you are using.
```

This document assumes user has access to an Auth0 Management dashboard to setup the SSO Client Application.

Following is a typical process of setting up NOM SSO Client Application in Auth0:

* Create a new __Application__ by choosing `Single Page Web Application` as application type.
* Copy details _Domain_ , _Client ID_ , _Client Secret_ from `Basic Information` section of __Application Settings__.
* Configure __Application URIs__ :
    ** Add `https://<NOM_SERVER_HOSTNAME>:<NOM_SERVER_PORT>/login` (omit the port if using default 443) as the only `Application Login URI`.
    ** Add `https://<NOM_SERVER_HOSTNAME>:<NOM_SERVER_PORT>/auth0-callback` (omit the port if using default 443) as the only `Allowed Callback URLs`.
    ** Add `https://<NOM_SERVER_HOSTNAME>:<NOM_SERVER_PORT>` as the only `Allowed Logout URLs`.
* Under __Advanced Settings__, select following _Grant Types_:
    ** Implicit
    ** Authorization Code
    ** Refresh token
* Configure other settings like Connections & Login Experience according to your tenant setup
* We recommend creating 2 user roles to be mapped to NOM’s Admin and Read-only user roles to keep NOM server configuration simple. 

> If your tenant has complex user roles that need to be mapped to NOM roles, please use the SpEL expressions as described xref:./configuration.adoc#_role_assignment[here].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your project has complex user roles that need to be mapped to NOM roles, please use the SpEL expressions as described xref:./configuration.adoc#_role_assignment[here].
```

Author: A tenant is the top-level container in Auth0. It represents the account environment. So let us stay with "Auth0 tenant" here.

== Configure NOM server for SSO with Auth0 IdP

The following table describes additional configuration options required for setting up SSO with Auth0.

[cols="<,<,<, <",options="header"]
|===
| Command line argument
| Environment variable name
| Description
| Example value

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.client-id`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_CLIENT_ID`
| Client ID for the NOM SSO client configured in the IdP. Required for all grant types.
| `0oaw54wd6rJQ8lReH697`

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.client-secret`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_CLIENT_SECRET`
| Client Secret for the NOM SSO client configured in the IdP for `AUTHORIZATION_CODE` and `PKCE` grant types.
| `<secret>`

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.scopes`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_SCOPES`
| Comma-separated list of scopes to request during authentication.
The scope should contain the enabled scopes in the Auth0 `Authorization Server`.
| `email,profile,openid`

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.authority`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_AUTHORITY`
| Issuer URL of the Auth0 `Authorization Server` which includes the `Authorization Server` ID.

> | `\https://<ORG>.Auth0.com/oauth2/<AUTHORIZATION_SERVER_ID>`

Author: ```suggestion
| Authority URL.
| `\https://<ORG>.auth0.com/`
```

not sure what to write as a description, maybe you have a proposal?

Reviewer 2: Its not needed actually. Will remove.

Author: do you mean that the whole `authority` config option is not needed for Auth0 and OKTA?

Reviewer 2: Yes, I only kept it as to have a uniform config with Entra ID & Google Identity, but it can be optional. Also I think the we have it as required property in the backend config validations https://github.com/neo-technology/neo4j-ops-manager-backend/blob/6f53a9b734bd51a47433a9e0d31c21e9d4a134d9/server/app/src/main/java/com/neo4j/opsmanager/server/config/SsoConfigs.java#L230 which makes it mandatory now.

Shall I just remove it from validations too?

Author: > I only kept it as to have a uniform config with Entra ID & Google Identity
`authority` isn't required for Google Identity, only for Entra ID

If is not read by FE or BE code for OKTA and Auth0, we should remove it. Or is it just optional there?

Reviewer 2: Ok checked FE & BE, it's at least needed in Auth0 for claim validations. For Okta it's optional, but I would say let's keep it as it's same as issuer for Okta and doesn't really affect anything. I will update docs accordingly.

Author: I see it being used in `src/auth/authentication/sso/auth0/hooks/useCustomerAuth0.ts`, also to build the `audience`. Maybe we should remove `authority` from Auth0 frontend code and instead use the configured audience?

Author: If I understand correctly, for OKTA `authority` is not used at all. Then we should remove it from BE validation and docs. Why should we keep it?

Reviewer 2: But we don't send the audience as part of `SsoConfig`.
It would make it simpler if we send it, but that's a change in both BE & FE.
If you agree I can update Auth0 PRs with these changes

Author: if it is safe to send it from security point of view, let us send it. That would simplify the code. ~~I find it less confusing if the `audience` is not computed on FE and at the same time is a config option on the BE.~~

I find it less confusing if the value for `audience` is just taken as it is configured, both on FE and BE (if possible from the implementation point of view).

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.issuer`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_ISSUER`
| Issuer URL of the Auth0 `Authorization Server` which includes the `Authorization Server` ID.

> | `\https://<ORG>.Auth0.com/oauth2/<AUTHORIZATION_SERVER_ID>`

Author: ```suggestion
| Issuer URL of the Auth0 `Authorization Server`.
| `\https://<ORG>.auth0.com/oauth2/`
```

At least in your example it is `https://dev-lmgdx6l6tlrlo5cr.us.auth0.com/`, without the `Authorization Server` ID.

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.audience`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_AUDIENCE`
| Audience for validating the access token.
It is the audience configured for custom Auth0 `Authorization Server`. If using default server, it would be `api://default`.

> | `<NOM_APP_URL>`

Author: ```suggestion
| `https://<ORG>.auth0.com/api/v2/`
```

From your config example.
